ACP 3507 - ACP 3636 Add and update documentation for headless approach and APIs (#2837)
spryker/spryker-docs: docs/pbc/all/payment-service-provider/202404.0/base-shop/third-party-integrations/stripe/project-guidelines-for-stripe.md

## Checkout payment step

There're multiple ways to implement Stripe. Some of the options:

- Add Stripe to a headless frontend application using Glue API.
- Add it as a hosted payment page which redirect the customer after submitting an order.

<!--- You can use the default implementation in the Payment selection page using Yves which shows the Payment Elements then later on the summary page.) -->

### Implement Stripe in a headless application

Use this approach for headless applications with third-party frontends.

#### Install modules

Install or upgrade the modules to the specified or higher versions:
- `spryker/kernel-app:1.2.0`
- `spryker/payment:5.24.0`
- `spryker/payments-rest-api:1.3.0`

#### PreOrder payment flow

1. The customer either selects Stripe as the payment method or Stripe Elements is loaded by default.
2. When Stripe is selected, the `InitializePreOrderPayment` Glue API endpoint (`glue.mysprykershop.com/payments`) is called with the following parameters:
  * Payment provider name: Stripe
  * Payment method name: Stripe
  * Payment amount
  * Quote data

> 3. Zed makes the API call to the Stripe App, including required authorization.

Reviewer: Back Office?

- Add Stripe to a headless frontend application using Glue API.
- Add it as a hosted payment page which redirect the customer after submitting an order.

<!--- You can use the default implementation in the Payment selection page using Yves which shows the Payment Elements then later on the summary page.) -->

### Implement Stripe in a headless application

Use this approach for headless applications with third-party frontends.

#### Install modules

Install or upgrade the modules to the specified or higher versions:
- `spryker/kernel-app:1.2.0`
- `spryker/payment:5.24.0`
- `spryker/payments-rest-api:1.3.0`

#### PreOrder payment flow

1. The customer either selects Stripe as the payment method or Stripe Elements is loaded by default.
2. When Stripe is selected, the `InitializePreOrderPayment` Glue API endpoint (`glue.mysprykershop.com/payments`) is called with the following parameters:
  * Payment provider name: Stripe
  * Payment method name: Stripe
  * Payment amount
  * Quote data
3. Zed makes the API call to the Stripe App, including required authorization.
4. The payment with the given data is persisted On the Stripe App side.

> 5. An API call to Stripe is made to get `ClientSecret` and `PublishableKey` keys.

Reviewer: Does the Stripe App make the call?

5. Stripe returns a JSON response with the following parameters:
  * TransactionId
  * ClientSecret
  * PublishableKey
  * Only for marketplaces: AccountId

> - Use the example JavaScript to render Stripe Elements on the order summary page.

Reviewer: How is this information related to this flow?

6. The customer selects a payment method in Stripe Elements and submits the data.

> 7. The customer is redirected to the provided `return_url`, which makes another Glue API request (`glue.mysprykershop.com/checkout`) to persist the order in the Back Office.

Reviewer: Provided by who and where?

6. The customer selects a payment method in Stripe Elements and submits the data.
7. The customer is redirected to the provided `return_url`, which makes a Glue API request to persist the order in the Back Office: `glue.mysprykershop.com/checkout`.
8. The customer is redirected to the success page of your application.
9. Through the `\Spryker\Zed\Payment\Communication\Plugin\Checkout\PaymentConfirmPreOrderPaymentCheckoutPostSavePlugin` plugin, the PreOrder payment is confirmed on the Stripe App side. The `order_reference` is passed to the Stripe app to be connected with `transaction_id`.
10. After the payment is processed on the Stripe App side, a `PaymentUpdated` message is sent to Spryker.
  The message contains additional data, which you can see in the Back Office.
11. Depending on payment status, one of the following messages is returned through an asynchronous API, which moves the order to the next state in OMS:
  *  When the payment is successful, a `PaymentAuthorized` message is returned.
  *  When the payment is failed, a `PaymentAuthorizationFailed` message is returned.
12. Further on, the order is processed through the OMS.

> 

Reviewer: From this point on, the information needs to be restructured based on what exactly we are trying to explain

Author: Is it better now?

Reviewer: Nope, I still don't understand the idea behind this section. Perhaps break it down into smaller sections

Author: The above section describes the PreOrder Payment flow and the below sections describe where to find the example integration as well as the examples with description.

I don't see how to change it to be better.

10. The customer is redirected to the application's success page.
11. Stripe app confirms the PreOrder payment using the plugin: `\Spryker\Zed\Payment\Communication\Plugin\Checkout\PaymentConfirmPreOrderPaymentCheckoutPostSavePlugin`.
  The `order_reference` is passed to the Stripe app to be connected with `transaction_id`.
12. Stripe app processes the payment and sends a `PaymentUpdated` message to Spryker.
  The message contains additional data, which you can see in the Back Office.
13. Depending on payment status, one of the following messages is returned through an asynchronous API:
  *  Payment is successful: `PaymentAuthorized` message.
  *  Payment is failed: `PaymentAuthorizationFailed` message.
14. Further on, the order is processed through the OMS.

All payment related messages mentioned above are handled by `\Spryker\Zed\Payment\Communication\Plugin\MessageBroker\PaymentOperationsMessageHandlerPlugin`, which is registered in `MessageBrokerDependencyProvider`.

### Example integration

To check out how the integration works, see this [example application](https://github.com/spryker-projects/spa-checkout-glue-with-stripe).

> Before the customer is redirected to the summary page, all required data is collected: customer data, addresses, and selected shipment method. When the customer goes to the summary page, to get the data required for rendering the Stripe Elements, the application needs to call the `InitializePreOrderPayment` Glue API endpoint.

Author: As it is a general requirement for a Glue checkout.

> Before the customer is redirected to the summary page, all required data is collected: customer data, addresses, and selected shipment method. When the customer goes to the summary page, to get the data required for rendering the Stripe Elements, the application needs to call the `InitializePreOrderPayment` Glue API endpoint.

Reviewer: Can we rename the title for this paragraph then? The structure is different now

#### Example of rendering Stripe Elements on the summary page

> ```JS

Reviewer: I assume this code is the example of rendering stripe elements on the summary page?

Author: No this is the initial request to get the required data from Stripe to render the payment elements. This includes the clientSecret, the publishableKey, and the accountId.

          quote: QUOTE_DATA,
          payment: {
            amount: GRAND_TOTAL, // You will get it through the `/checkout-data?include=carts` endpoint
            paymentMethodName: 'stripe', // taken from /checkout-data?include=payment-methods
            paymentProviderName: 'stripe',  // taken from /checkout-data?include=payment-methods
          },
          preOrderPaymentData: {
            "transactionId": this.transactionId, // This is empty in the first request but has to be used in further requests
          },
        },
      },
    };

    const responseData = await this.fetchHandler(`GLUE_APPLICATION_URL/payments`, {
      method: 'POST',
      headers: {
        'Content-Type': 'application/json',
        Authorization: `Bearer ACCESS_TOKEN`,
      },
      body: JSON.stringify(requestData),
    });

    const paymentProviderData =
      responseData.data.attributes.preOrderPaymentData;

    this.transactionId = paymentProviderData.transactionId;
    this.accountId = paymentProviderData.accountId; // only be used on the Direct business model. When using a Marketplace business model this will not be present.

    await this.setupStripe();
  }

```

> To identify the customer, you can use the `Authorization` and `X-Anonymous-Customer-Unique-Id` headers.

Reviewer: Why do I need to identify the customers? How is it related to the code above?

Author: This is usual in Glue checkouts. Either you have a logged-in customer or a guest customer.

## Checkout payment step

Implementing the Payment Provider Stripe into your project can be done in many different ways.

> - You can add it in your own headless frontend application using Glue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You can add it in your headless frontend application using the Glue application.
```

[//]: # (- You can use the default implementation in the Payment selection page using Yves which shows the Payment Elements then later on the summary page.)

> - You can add it as a hosted Payment page which uses a redirect after your customer submits the order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You can add it as a hosted payment page which uses a redirect after your customer submits the order.
```

### Headless implementation

This approach should be used when your project is a headless project without an Yves application. Make sure you have the following modules installed in the specified or newer versions:

#### Modules

- `spryker/kernel-app:1.2.0`
- `spryker/payment:5.24.0`
- `spryker/payments-rest-api:1.3.0`

#### PreOrder payment flow in a Nutshell

- The customer either selects Stripe as the payment method or he gets only Stripe Elements presented.

> - When you have more than one Payment Provider in your project and Stripe gets selected the `InitializePreOrderPayment` Glue API endpoint (glue.your-website.com/payments?action=initialize-pre-order-payment) is called with the Payment Provider name (Stripe), the Payment Method name (Stripe), CSS-ID of the element to render Stripe Elements to, CSS-ID of the element to render messages to, the Payment Element Options including the `return_url`, and the Quote data. See example below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When you have more than one Payment Provider in your project and Stripe gets selected the `InitializePreOrderPayment` Glue API endpoint (glue.your-website.com/payments) is called with the Payment Provider name (Stripe), the Payment Method name (Stripe), payment amount, and the Quote data. See example below.
```

> - When you only use Stripe in your project then the `InitializePreOrderPayment` Glue API endpoint (glue.your-website.com/payments) is called with the Payment Provider name (Stripe) and the Payment Method name (Stripe). See example below.

Reviewer 2: quote and payment amount is still needed, so there is no difference with the previous paragraph, should be combined into one

>   - The required quote data must be provided by your application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

- Zed now makes the API call to the Stripe App including required authorization.
- On the Stripe App side the Payment with the given data is persisted and an API call to Stripe is made to get the ClientSecret and the PublishableKey.

> - You will get back a JSON response with the ClientSecret and the PublishableKey.

Reviewer 2: and PaymentIntent ID + AccountID for direct B2C/B2B model

> - Use the example JavaScript to render the Stripe Elements on the summary page of your application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use the example JavaScript to render the Stripe Elements on the order summary page of your application.
```

- Then the customer can select the Payment Method in the Stripe Elements and submits the data.
- The customer will then be redirected to the provided `return_url` which must make another Glue request (glue.your-website.com/checkout) to persist the order in the backoffice.

> - After this the customer should be redirected to the success page of your application.

Author: It's in the making.

Before you send your customer to the summary page you collect all required data as usual. This includes: customer data, addresses, and selecting a shipment method. When the customer goes to the summary page, you have to call the `InitializePreOrderPayment` Glue API endpoint to get the required data to render the Stripe Elements.

#### Example

```JAVASCRIPT

async initializePreOrderPayment() {
    const requestData = {
      data: {
        type: 'payments',
        attributes: {
          quote: QUOTE_DATA,
          payment: {
            amount: GRAND_TOTAL, // You will get it through the `/checkout-data?include=carts` endpoint
            paymentMethodName: 'stripe', // taken from /checkout-data?include=payment-methods
            paymentProviderName: 'stripe',  // taken from /checkout-data?include=payment-methods
          },
          preOrderPaymentData: {
            "transactionId": this.transactionId, // This is empty in the first request but has to be used in further requests 
          },
        },
      },
    };

>     const responseData = await this.fetchHandler(`GLUE_APPLICATION_URL/payments`, {

Reviewer 2: To make it usable for projects, they must also configure CORS correctly for Glue application. We have a guide for this.
https://docs.spryker.com/docs/pbc/all/miscellaneous/202404.0/install-and-upgrade/install-glue-api/install-the-spryker-core-glue-api.html#configure-cors

Author: Added here https://github.com/spryker/spryker-docs/pull/2837/files#diff-90038c83c8469fb56176e83bfc5f20add6232b7a7769acb30d9900b4a3789a89R295
